# L-Train Closures
___
## Oisin Corbett, Arvind Dev, & Joshua Gadasi
The impending closure of the L train is said to impact countless commuters who rely on the train for transportation. We analyzed the effects of this closure in three different neighborhoods—Bushwick, Ridgewood, and East Village—and formulated potential ways to mitigate the effects. 

## Neighborhoods: Bushwick, Ridgewood, East Village
### Bushwick
  To replace the L train, there would have to be at least two bus lanes with a capacity of on top of the current number of buses for commuters already using the bus. The ferries would be very impractical for replacing the L train. With a maximum capacity of 400 people, there would need to be about 125 ferries, running about every two minutes. Assuming everyone drives, and each lane has a capacity of 1,440 people per hour, there would need to be an extra 9 lanes running to the city. With each bike lane, allowing 5,200 commuters an hour, there would need to be at least 3 bike lanes to facilitate the commute of everyone who previously took the L train.
  Realistically, a combination of these alternatives would be required to adequately and efficiently compensate for the closure of the L-Train. An increase in busses would be the most effective and reasonable solution that the MTA could control. Not everyone has the ability or means to use a car or bike, and a slight increase in ferries could be used to alleviate the strain on buses.
### Ridgewood
  Ridgewood will be moderately impacted by the L train closing, as it will create a longer commute for residents. The only other train line is the M, which would create much more congestion and heighten commuting time. This congestion may lead to commuters waking up earlier and seeking alternative employment. This will likely reduce rent prices as per the FiveThirtyEight analysis of the correltion between rent prices and transportation proximity. This may reduce quality of life in the neighborhood, as Ridgewood has a walk score of 95 and excelled in most areas of life sans housing according to its Niche ranking. 
  To ameliorate the closing, alternative methods of transportation must be sought out. Improving and expanding the nearby train accessibliity (the M train line) along with opening a new nearby station or having another train line stop at Halseye St. or Myrtle-Wyckoff Avenue would greatly aid the situation. If this is not possible, the MTA would have to offer shuttle buses to take riders down to a more accessible train stop like 14th St-Union Square and the government would need to expand highways to accommodate more drivers.
### East Village
  The L-train runs crosstown along the northern edge of the East Village. Its closure for construction should have a moderate impact on the neighborhood's transportation. As of current, there are very few subway stations accessible to residents of the East Village. The L-train's closure will only reinforce this fact and create a greater reliance on buses, causing more traffic and pollution. Tens of thousands of residents are expected to be affected by the closure. According to FiveThirtyEight's analysis of the relationship between rent prices and transportation times, the rent in the East Village should remain the same, as the average commute time will not increase by more than a few minutes assuming that the city employs more buses and effectively controls traffic patterns. In order to minimize traffic, the city would need to temporarily create at least 4.5 additional bus lanes to host the buses that will be used to mitigate the loss of the L train for 15 months. Residents of the East Village commuting out of Manhattan will have to resort to ferries in order to cross the river. To satisfy the number of commuters who would need to use a ferry every morning, the city would need to employ about 1 ferry every minute. Bike lanes could help mitigate some of the displaced commuters. However, with increasing traffic from an increase in buses, the roads might not be so friendly to riders.
___
### For further information please visit our websites: 
* [Bushwick](oisincorbett.github.io/)
* [Ridgewood](jgadasi.github.io/East-Village/)
* [East Village](arv-ind.github.io/Ridgewood/)


